doc/verify.adoc, before:

= Mycelium Entropy =
:icons: font
:stylesdir:
:scriptsdir:
:hide-uri-scheme:
:prewrap:
:docinfo1:
:led: pass:[<object data="me.svg" type="image/svg+xml" style="width: 6em; height: 5em"></object>]

== Firmware Verification ==

This document explains how to check whether your Mycelium Entropy device
contains genuine firmware.

IMPORTANT: This procedure guarantees malware detection only if the potential
compomise happened before the 7^th^ of April 2015.

. Hold the button down while inserting the device into your computer.
. The device's LED will pulsate slowly.
. Your computer should detect a USB disk labelled `ME-CONFIG`.
** In case of a problem, consult the link:me.html#disk_broken[User Manual].
. Download and copy link:verify.tsk[verify.tsk] to `ME-CONFIG`.
. Instruct your computer to eject/unmount/safely remove `ME-CONFIG`, like you
would a regular USB flash stick.
. Briefly press the button on the device.
. The light on the device will blink rapidly for about 16 seconds.
. If the firmware is genuine, the two LEDs will blink alternately (not too fast,
around two times a second). +
Any other indication means that your device may have been compromised.

After that, you can unplug your device.

This tool can also dump the actual contents of your Entropy's firmware.
After verification, the device will create a disk labelled `FIRMWARE` with three
files on it.

.Why is this procedure potentially ineffective against future compromises?
Your device's firmware is used to run the verification tool (verify.tsk).
Once this document is published, there is small risk that a clever attacker may
adapt his/her forged firmware to fake the tool's blinking and the `FIRMWARE`
disk.

=== Firmware Hashes ===

NOTE: This section is purely informational.  The LED-based verification
explained above is fully sufficient to determine whether your device has been
compromised or not.

The firmware is stored in three sections of Mycelium Entropy flash.  Two of them
are slightly larger than the corresponding firmware parts.  The verification
tool dumps entire sections, where firmware is padded at the end (usually with
`FF`).  The hashes below take this padding into account.

[cols="2,5,4"]
|===
|File|SHA-1 hash|Description

|`boot.bin`|`6bf1a0305fe76ac81ce5f5cb5fa874312f10ca6b`|Bootloader.
|`firmware.bin`|`71ac8668438594babc77b4f2d8de6f2ec0de77e5` or +
`d2b70565164c63890eccea183d01674574e145db`
|Main firmware.
|`bip39.bin`|`7f33cd6922b414f14ea4107e7ca88c18fedecf1f`
|BIP-39 word list, used for HD wallets.
|===

Commit message:

Added hash of verify.tsk.

doc/verify.adoc, after:

= Mycelium Entropy =
:icons: font
:stylesdir:
:scriptsdir:
:hide-uri-scheme:
:prewrap:
:docinfo1:
:led: pass:[<object data="me.svg" type="image/svg+xml" style="width: 6em; height: 5em"></object>]

== Firmware Verification ==

This document explains how to check whether your Mycelium Entropy device
contains genuine firmware.

IMPORTANT: This procedure guarantees malware detection only if the potential
compomise happened before the 7^th^ of April 2015.

. Hold the button down while inserting the device into your computer.
. The device's LED will pulsate slowly.
. Your computer should detect a USB disk labelled `ME-CONFIG`.
** In case of a problem, consult the link:me.html#disk_broken[User Manual].
. Download and copy link:verify.tsk[verify.tsk] to `ME-CONFIG`.
. Instruct your computer to eject/unmount/safely remove `ME-CONFIG`, like you
would a regular USB flash stick.
. Briefly press the button on the device.
. The light on the device will blink rapidly for about 16 seconds.
. If the firmware is genuine, the two LEDs will blink alternately (not too fast,
around two times a second). +
Any other indication means that your device may have been compromised.

After that, you can unplug your device.

This tool can also dump the actual contents of your Entropy's firmware.
After verification, the device will create a disk labelled `FIRMWARE` with three
files on it.

.Why is this procedure potentially ineffective against future compromises?
Your device's firmware is used to run the verification tool (verify.tsk).
Once this document is published, there is small risk that a clever attacker may
adapt his/her forged firmware to fake the tool's blinking and the `FIRMWARE`
disk.

=== Firmware Hashes ===

NOTE: This section is purely informational.  The LED-based verification
explained above is fully sufficient to determine whether your device has been
compromised or not.

The firmware is stored in three sections of Mycelium Entropy flash.  Two of them
are slightly larger than the corresponding firmware parts.  The verification
tool dumps entire sections, where firmware is padded at the end (usually with
`FF`).  The hashes below take this padding into account.

The hash of the verification tool is also included.  Note that it will not
appear on the `FIRMWARE` disk.

[cols="2,5,4"]
|===
|File|SHA-1 hash|Description

|`boot.bin`|`6bf1a0305fe76ac81ce5f5cb5fa874312f10ca6b`|Bootloader.
|`firmware.bin`|`71ac8668438594babc77b4f2d8de6f2ec0de77e5` or +
`d2b70565164c63890eccea183d01674574e145db`
|Main firmware.
|`bip39.bin`|`7f33cd6922b414f14ea4107e7ca88c18fedecf1f`
|BIP-39 word list, used for HD wallets.
|`verify.tsk`|`386710390f7dbeccf57df5bd1dfd81f02ffa4a5c`
|Firmware verification tool.
|===
